So we're gonna move on to node.js on
Docker because I'm a node developer and
that's what I like, and so
you're stuck cuz I have the microphone.
But pretty much everything that
I'm gonna teach you here, one,
you don't really need
to know Node that much.
I'm gonna give you all of the code and not
necessarily expect you to understand it.
And two, this could be applied to Ruby,
it could be applied to Go, it could be
applied to Java, Cobalt, Pearl,
I don't know, whatever suits your fancy.
I'm not gonna shame.
But just to kind of start getting
into some of these other flavors of
containers that might be useful to you,
in particular,
the node one because we are gonna
be using that one all day.
So we're here in MacOS mode right now.
And I'm gonna say docker run dash it.
And I'm gonna say node,
which isn't the official node container
that Docker certifies as official.
These are actually built by
a company called NodeSource,
wonderful people that do
really great node consulting.
And they make wonderful containers,
they're experts in it, that's why I
rely on them and I don't do it myself.
And then here, if I did node,
this would run latest,
which I think would be the same as
what I'm gonna tell you to do now.
But again,
I wanna kind of freeze in time, right?
Just like you pin your dependencies
before you send them in production,
that's why I'm gonna give
you the correct tag here.
So I wanna run node 12, and then I want it
to be tied specifically to Debian stretch.
So I'm gonna say 12 dash stretch.
So actually, that looks like
I don't have that locally, so
it's actually gonna go out and pull that.
>> Could you help me understand what do
you mean by tying node to Debian stretch?
>> Sure.
So whenever you run a Docker container,
There's multiple versions of
things going to it, right?
And the thing that I'm gonna care in this
particular case with the node image,
the two things that I really care about
the versions of is I care about what
version of Linux it's on and I care
what version of Node it's on, right?
So the 12, that's node 12,
that makes sense.
Stretch is tying it to
a specific version of Debian,
which I believe is Debian seven.
Don't quote me on that,
cuz I don't really know Debian very well.
Now, why are we doing
Debian versus Ubuntu?
That is just what they build
the Node images with, right?
I think you can get it on Bionic and
other versions of Ubuntu,
but by default it's on Debian.
>> It is kind of like
a mash up on those two.
>> Yeah, so actually literally the next
session I'll be talking about tags,
which is what this is.
But suffice to say it's arbitrary.
So whoever creates the container
chooses what the tags are called.
So they could have called
it stretch dash 12.
They could have called it
whatever they wanted to.
That makes sense?
>> Yeah.
>> Cool.
>> So
stretch is just a name does not have any?
>> It's a really easy way to remember
the version of Debian, right?
Again, like I can't remember what the
numbers of what Debian version we're on,
but I know that Stretch is the latest one,
latest LTS, that is.
Does that make sense?
>> Yeah, I just wasn't sure if Stretch
was a term for latest or something.
>> It's not, no,
it's specifically for Debian.
It's like we've been using Ubuntu Bionic
this whole time, right, which is 18.04,
that's what Stretch is for Debian.
>> Thank you.
>> Yep.
So we got, looks like two more layers that
it's gonna download here very quickly.
>> Brian, do you want us to
download this image, too?
>> Yeah, probably.
Yes, the answer's yes cuz we'll
use it several times throughout
the rest of the course.
Then, it has to go extract everything and
then reapply everything, so
it takes a bit of processing.
So okay, we downloaded the image,
it pulled it and executed it, and
now it drops us into some sort of REPL,
right?
REPL being like a, god,
what does REPL stand for?
I'm sure someone here knows.
Anyway, it stands for something, R-E-P-L.
I'm sure there's nine people on
the chat saying it stands for this.
>> Read, Evalue, Print, Loop.
>> Yep, Read, Evaluate,
Print, Loop, there it is.
And surprise, it's a JavaScript, right?
So I can say console dot log x, right?
And it'll do that, or
2 plus 2, whatever, right?
So this dropped us into the node REPL
inside of a Debian Stretch Linux, right?
Which may or
may not be what you're expecting.
But like I said, the container gets to
define what command actually gets run.
So this drops up into a REPL, which stands
for read, execute, print, and loop, right?
For node js.
So if I just say something like console
dot log x, it's gonna log out x, right?
Normal JavaScripty kinda stuff, right?
If you just do it on your computer and
you just write node,
this is what it does for you.
Like I was telling you before,
the containers themselves get to decide.
If I don't specify command,
which you can see up here, right there,
I didn't specify a command, right?
So it does whatever it defaults to,
in this case, it's like I'm gonna
put you into the node REPL because I've no
idea what you actually want to do, okay?
So that's what this does here.
I see the exit.
There we go.
So hit Ctrl+C twice,
that'll get you out of the REPL.
And then, it finishes
the container at that point, right,
because that's the CMD that
it was designed to do.
But if I actually wanna be dropped
into just the Linux part of it,
I can say bash, right?
And now, I'm inside of this container.
But as opposed to the other ones,
first of all, if I say cat /etc/issue,
you can see I'm on, looks like it's
Debin nine is what stretch is.
I was wrong, I thought it was seven.
Any case,
that's what kind of Linux we're in.
And Ubuntu is based on Debian,
so everything's gonna feel very,
very familiar to you.
But what's cool about this one
if I say node dash v, right,
now it has Node installed because
I got the Node container, okay?
So you can see here, I have Node 12,
which is exactly what I asked for.
So that's kind of fun, right?
So again,
something I think is quite useful, too,
is just knowing this cat /etc/issue thing,
right?
If you run Node, right, and
I just run Node like this,
which I'm not gonna do right now.
You might not know that this is Debian,
right?
I don't know if it's a faulty assumption,
but
I just assume most things are Ubuntu
because that's what I use.
But in this particular case,
they decided to go with something else.
But this is a good way to kinda say,
okay, where am I, what am I doing,
what's the lay of the land there?
We'll go into later which Linux
distributions you can select.
But I mean, the sum of the story is choose
the one that you're most comfortable with.
All of these are really good.
Red Hat Linux is a good one.
Mint, Alpine, Debian, Ubuntu,
they're all valid choices just
depending what you wanna do.